writeup_template.md, before:

# **Finding Lane Lines on the Road** 

## Writeup Template

### You can use this file as a template for your writeup if you want to submit it as a markdown file. But feel free to use some other method and submit a pdf if you prefer.

---

**Finding Lane Lines on the Road**

The goals / steps of this project are the following:
* Make a pipeline that finds lane lines on the road
* Reflect on your work in a written report


[//]: # (Image References)

[image1]: ./examples/grayscale.jpg "Grayscale"

---

### Reflection

### 1. Describe your pipeline. As part of the description, explain how you modified the draw_lines() function.

My pipeline consisted of 5 steps. First, I converted the images to grayscale, then I .... 

In order to draw a single line on the left and right lanes, I modified the draw_lines() function by ...

If you'd like to include images to show how the pipeline works, here is how to include an image: 

![alt text][image1]


### 2. Identify potential shortcomings with your current pipeline


One potential shortcoming would be what would happen when ... 

Another shortcoming could be ...


### 3. Suggest possible improvements to your pipeline

A possible improvement would be to ...

Another potential improvement could be to ...

Commit message:

Work started on write-up

writeup_template.md, after:

# **Finding Lane Lines on the Road**

#### We built a simple pipeline that is able to process road images taken by a car camera and detect lanes. The pipeline function is then used to run through two different videos to continuously detect lanes.

---

### Goals

The goals / steps of this project are the following:
* Make a pipeline that finds lane lines on the road
* Use the pipeline function to continuously find lanes in road video


[//]: # (Image References)

[image_A]: ./pipeline_results/grayscale.jpg "Grayscale"

---

### Reflection

### 1. The Pipeline

Our pipeline consisted of 5 main steps. First the the parameters of a polygon mask to apply to the image are determined [A]. These parameters are chosen in such a way that none of the actual lanes are masked in all images generated by a camera held in the same position. However, the mask not applied yet, it applied later once we detect the necessary lines. Then, the image is transformed from color to grayscale [B]. Next, a gaussian blurring is applied to the image to remove noise [C]. A canny edge detector is applied to the blurred image to detect edges [D]. Since the image is blurred, the noise in the original image is unlikely to be detected by the canny detector. Once, the edge image is generated, hough transformation function is applied to find lines in the image [E]. The hough transformation is applied by using a custom draw_lines function. This function is modified in order to elongate the lines of the two lanes and to apply the polygon mask to only use lines with-in the mask area to prevent any non-lane lines from interfering. It is worth mentioning that the edge detection and the hough transformation process involved a significant amount of parameter tuning in order to detect lines that at least approximately represented the actual lanes in the image. After the lines are detected they 

![A][A]


### 2. Identify potential shortcomings with your current pipeline


One potential shortcoming would be what would happen when ...

Another shortcoming could be ...


### 3. Suggest possible improvements to your pipeline

A possible improvement would be to ...

Another potential improvement could be to ...
